# C Coding Style Guidline
## Tabs and spaces
Tabs should be 4 spaces . Tabs should be expanded into spaces.
## Line length
Each line should should be at most 80 characters long.
## Variables
Variables should follow the camel case naming convention, i.e., they should look like
```
int numPeople = 5;
```
The first letter of variables should not be capitalized. Variable names should be descriptive and reflect their contents but avoid overly verboses names. In general, single letter vairable names are not nice, except in the case of loop counters. When declaring a pointer the star should be separate from the type and the name,e.g.,
```
char * coolString;
```
The star should be attached to the variable when dereferencing, however. For example,
```
int * peripheral = 0x1234;
int value = *peripheral;
```
## Functions
Functions should also follow the camel case naming convention, i.e., they should look like
```
void decryptMessage(string message, int key);
```
The first letter of function names should not be capitalized. Function names should be descriptive and reflect what they accomplish.
## Braces
Curly brackets for functions should appear on their own line. All other curly brackets should not be on their own line unless it is necessary for the closing bracket. For example, this is what we are looking for:
```
int main(int argc, char * argv[])
{
    if (argc == 0) {
        printf("Hi\n");
    } else if (argc == 1) {
        printf("Hello %s\n", argv[0]);
    }
    return 0;
}
```
## Structs and Classes
Structs and classes should be named using camel case but the first letter of the name should be capitalized. For example,
```
struct Foo {
    int garbage;
    int bar;
};
```
